Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to talk about tuples.
Tuples are very similar to lists in that
they are used to store multiple pieces of information.
But there is a small, subtle difference
between tuples and lists, let's jump right in.
A tuple can be defined like this,
let's imagine you've got a short tuple
that contains two of your friend names,
you can just say Rolf comma Bob.
Notice that there are no square brackets now
around these two strings, but there is a comma
in between them so you've got one string
and then another string.
This is a tuple.
You can think of it as almost the same thing as a list,
but I'll show you the difference in just a moment.
It's often good form to put brackets around this.
So this is a bit clearer.
If you put brackets around the two strings like that,
this is a little bit clearer that it's a tuple,
and almost all of the time you are going to see
tuples defined with the brackets around them.
But remember that the brackets
are not required in many cases.
Although there are some cases where they will be,
and that is when Python cannot be sure
if the comma is used to separate two things
inside a tuple or something else.
For example, here's an occasion
where you will need to use the brackets,
which is when you want to put a tuple inside a list.
If you have a list, and you wanna put a tuple inside it,
and you do it like this,
you have not put a tuple inside the list.
What you've done is you've created a list of two elements
as we saw in the last video.
If you wanna create a list with a tuple inside it,
you will need the brackets so that Python knows
that you intend this to evaluate first,
which creates a tuple, and then the list to evaluate later.
That's what brackets are normally used for
in mathematics as well, to signal order of evaluation.
So, most of the time you're going to see
your tuples defined with brackets around them,
and I would encourage you to get accustomed
to that notation as well.
Something very important is that while
you can write your tuples like this,
this thing is most definitely not a tuple
if you just write Rolf.
If you write Rolf on its own, that's just a string, right?
But if you add Rolf and then a comma,
Python knows that you want a tuple there,
and this, adding a comma at the end,
is something that a lot of my students
make as a mistake when they're starting out,
they just put a comma at the end because you know,
maybe they come from a different programming language,
or maybe it's a title or a small mistake,
and this can cause some trouble,
so make sure to not put commas at the end of your statements
in Python, because that turns strings, or anything else,
into tuples, and that can be a bit confusing.
So I've got this tuple here with my friend names,
Rolf, Bob, and Anne, and let's say
I wanna add something to this tuple.
Like we learned with lists, friends.append, and then Jen.
So if we run this now, you'll see that we'll get an error,
and it says, attribute error, this is the name of the error,
tuple object has no attribute append.
And here it tells you the line in which the error occurred,
which is line two of our code.
What this means is that you can't do dot append on a tuple.
Okay, so how do you add to a tuple
if you can't append to it?
Well, that's the thing, you cannot add to a tuple.
Here we've got a tuple of three elements,
and you cannot insert an extra element on this tuple.
All you can do is say friends equal
friends plus Jen, like that.
So you can add two tuples together,
in this case, the friends tuple and the Jen tuple
with a single element, and those two,
and say that friends is now equal
to the result of adding them.
Remember when you do an equal sign,
the right side evaluates first,
so this thing here uses the current value of friends
and this new tuple, and then you give it the name friends,
so you can reassign while using
a variable in the assignment,
that's totally fine, it just uses the last value
of the variable if it existed.
You can do this, if you want,
and that will result in a tuple of four elements.
But what's important, and an important distinction,
is that the tuple itself did not change,
you created a new one, which contains now four elements.
And while that's relatively unimportant right now
it will become important as you learn more Python,
so that is the key difference between lists and tuples,
lists, you can add and remove elements, tuples, you cannot.
So that's the key difference.
Tuples are useful for when you wanna keep them unchanged.
Most of the time, I'd recommend using tuples over lists.
And only use lists when you specifically want
to allow modification or changes.
Again, at the moment this may not make much sense,
but you will find more meaning in that as you learn more.
Trust me on that one.
That's everything for this video though,
we've learned about tuples,
I'll see you on the next one.